[MUSIC]
Hi, in this set of slides,
we'll talk about the blink example,
a piece of code, a very simple piece
of code that everybody needs to
run on their Arduino to sanity check it,
to make sure everything's working.
So we'll just walk through that example.
We've learned basically all the pieces
that we need to know to be able to write
that piece of code.
So one other function call that we need to
know to be able to do the blink example,
a very useful function, is Delay.
To delay, if you look at the function, it
takes one argument, msec or milliseconds.
And it basically pauses the program for
a certain number of milliseconds.
So, a thousand milliseconds
being a full second.
So if you have a delay for
a thousand, that's a second delay.
It's useful for a lot of things.
Human interaction is what
we're using it for a lot.
So by that I mean, machines,
microcontrollers, are fast, right?
Even the slow microcontrollers
run at eight megahertz, right?
But that's, you know, eight million
cycles a second, something like that.
But humans are slow, relative to that,
very slow compared to that.
So, there's always this human, computer
interface going on with these Internet of
things devices, because these
Internet of things devices are always
dealing with humans, or most of the time
are dealing directly with humans.
There's some kind of a user interface,
right?
And this user interface has
to be slowed down, right?
It has to be at the speed that
a human can perceive it, right?
So, you can't just output some data and
expect the human to read it in one
clock cycle and then change it.
If you want the human to see something, to
hear something, it has to be present for
a certain amount of time, or
else the human can't even perceive it.
So, you get this problem a lot
where you have to delay things
inside your microcontroller, just so
the human can properly perceive whatever
it is you're trying to give to the human.
So, here's an example.
We've got digitalWrite(3, HIGH).
So that sets pin 3 HIGH, then delay(1000),
so that waits for one second,
and then digitalWrite(3, LOW).
And what that does is,
it just sets pin HIGH for one second.
For whatever reason,
it says pin HIGH for one second.
So, it's pretty simple what delay does.
Just to let you know, it's not
particularly precise as far as timers go,
but certainly for
what we're using it's good enough, right?
You can get better precision
timers using other functions, but
delay is sort of the standard function,
makes it nice and easy.
And for human interaction is much more
accurate than we actually need for
this purpose.
Okay, so the blink example.
So blink in your generic
embedded system example.
It's like hello world, so
you know if regular C programs or
any kind of program Hello,
World is often the first program they
teach you, just how to print hello, world.
Just to make sure you can
get something running.
But you can't use hello, world for
embedded systems often because
we don't have a screen, right.
There's no screen on which
you can print hello, world.
But almost every embedded
system has an LED.
So Blink example is sort of a common
example that you can use on basically
any type of embedded device and
just check it out, see if it works.
You just blink the LED.
So that's all that it does.
It makes the LED blink.
You can find this example,
if you go to the Arduino IDE,
go to File under examples,
under Basics, there's a Blink example.
So you select that, and it will pop up
the window that has the code for Blink.
Now notice, when you look at the code for
Blink, there are a lot of
comments inside that code.
You can read those, but
understand they are not executed, right.
So in the next slide I show you the Blink
example without the comments and
it is very short.
So what happens in the Arduino,
this Blink example, it blinks and
one of the LEDs built into the Arduino.
And so there's an LED built into the
Arduino uno that is connect to pin 13 and
actually is right next to pin 13.
So you see in the picture,
we're zooming on digital pin 13 and
you see it's circled.
Then just to the side of
it there is this tiny LED.
It's a surface mount LED,
so it's very small.
But when it's blinking you can see it.
So there's an LED there and
that thing is gonna blink as
a result of running this program.
So the sketch.
The sketch,
if we look at the outline of the sketch,
we've got two functions,
void setup, and void loop.
So setup and
loop, which are the two functions that
you need in every Arduino sketch.
So in the setup,
all we do is say pinMode(13, OUTPUT).
We take pin 13,
which is the one that we wanna change,
because that's connected to the LED.
We make it an output cuz we wanna
assign the voltages on that pin.
So we said to be an output, and you do
that in the setup because you only need
to do that once right at
the beginning of the program.
And then in the loop, the thing that will
happen over and over, if you think about
a light that's blinking, this loop
has to describe how to blink once.
Okay?
And remember that this loop function
is automatically executed over and
over forever.
So if this loop function
causes it to blink one time,
that's sufficient because it will
automatically be called forever.
So, void loop.
What's in there?
First line, digitalWrite 13 HIGH.
So, we turn on pin 13, make it high
five volts, which will turn on the LED,
then delay 1000, so you hold it there for
a second, then diditalWrite pin 13 LOW,
you turn it off, and you hold it there for
a second, and that's it.
And that just gets called over,
and over, and the light blinks,
and you should definitely try this.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]